Output
======


Phuego output numerous files generated at each steps of the algorithm,
organized into a folder structure. If the user prefer to navigate the
files without the folder structure, they could set the flag
**–dont_convert2folder** when using the CLI, or set
**convert2folder=False** when using the python functions.

phuEGO processed the user input in two regulation directions:

::

   - increased
   - decreased

In each direction, there are four levels of phuEGO output:

::

   - seeds
   - rwr
   - ego (subjected to KDE_cutoff)
   - modules (subjected to KDE_cutoff)

Depending on the levels, three types of files could be provided:

::

   - protein lists
   - networks
   - fisher's exact test results

In brief, a user input protein list (seeds) is divided into two
directions using the scores (e.g., log2FCs). On each direction, it is
expanded through network propagation into a very large list (rwr). Then
this list is narrowed down (depending on where the user set the
KDE_cutoff) by extracting only Ego network of seed nodes (ego), and
further filtered by keeping inter-linked egos (modules). **The**
`modules <#4-output---module-networks>`__ **are considered the final
result of phuEGO.** For details, refer to `publication <#6-citation>`__.

4). Output - module networks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Module networks, generated by the Python igraph package, in an user
specified format (via CLI parameter **-nf**). The default .graphml
format contains information for module annotation, and can be readily
imported into other software such as Cytoscape.

::

   - decreased/KDE_cutoff/networks/module_net.graphml
   - increased/KDE_cutoff/networks/module_net.graphml

Files contains redundant information of the module networks in a more
human-readable format.

::

   - decreased/KDE_cutoff/networks/module_net_edgelist.csv
   - decreased/KDE_cutoff/networks/module_net_nodes_attribute.csv
   - increased/KDE_cutoff/networks/module_net_edgelist.csv
   - increased/KDE_cutoff/networks/module_net_nodes_attribute.csv

The network of the ego is also output at:

::

   - decreased/KDE_cutoff/networks/KDE.graphml
   - increased/KDE_cutoff/networks/KDE.graphml

5). Output - GSEA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On each level, geneset enrichment analysis (fisher’s exact test) are
performed on the protein list, against an user specified geneset
database. Through this, the user can examine whether phuEGO retrieves a
more meaningful protein list from the seeds. The geneset database are
part of the supporting database. In total, 8 databases are included, and
one or more databases can be specified by providing abbreviation to the
CLI arguments **–fg**.

::

   -P: enrichment against Gene Ontology biological process. Output file: Pfisher.txt
   -F: enrichment against Gene Ontology functional . Output file: Ffisher.txt
   -C: enrichment against Gene Ontology cellular component. Output file: Cfisher.txt
   -K: enrichment against KEGG. Output file: Kfisher.txt
   -R: enrichment against Reactome when only the leaves are consider as annotation. Output file: Rfisher.txt
   -RT: enrichment against Reactome when all the hierarchy is considered. Output file: RTfisher.txt
   -D: enrichment against DisGenenet. Output file: Dfisher.txt
   -B: enrichment against Bioplanet. Output file: Bfisher.txt

They are distributed across the following paths:

::

   - seeds: decreased/seed_fisher; increased/seed_fisher
   - rwr: decreased/rwr_fisher; increased/rwr_fisher
   - ego: decreased/KDE_cutoff/fisher; increased/KDE_cutoff/fisher
   - modules: decreased/KDE_cutoff/modules/module_N/fisher; increased/KDE_cutoff/modules/module_N/fisher

6). Output - protein list
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the ego level, a text file summarize the protein list within ego
network of each seed on a separate row. The first column is a seed node,
the remaining column are the neighbors associated with the seed nodes.
If **-ie** is provided to CLI, then rows with only the seeds will be
excluded during network generation.

::

   - decreased/KDE_cutoff/KDE_egos.txt
   - increased/KDE_cutoff/KDE_egos.txt

On the module level, for each module, a similar text file is generated,
containing only module-specific seeds and the associated nodes.

::

   - decreased/KDE_cutoff/modules/module_N/module_egos.txt
   - increased/KDE_cutoff/modules/module_N/module_egos.txt

7). Output - network propagation results
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Three files are stored on the top layers of the result folder. These
files can be reused by phuEGO to save time, when the user provide the
flag **-ru** to CLI.

::

   - pvalues.txt
   - rwr_scores.txt
   - start_seeds.txt

The pvalues.txt file contains the pvalues for each node of the network.
It is divided in seven columns, the first column refers to the uniprot
ids.

Columns from 2,3,and 4 refers to the pvalues associated with the
increased phosphorylation nodes pvalues, of which: -second column refers
to the pvalues when increased phosphorilated tyrosine are used as seed
nodes -third column refers to the pvalues when all the other increased
phosphorilated kinases are used as seed nodes, -fourth column refers to
the pvalues when the increased phosphorilated substrates are used as
seed nodes.

Columns from 5,6 and 7 refers to the pvalues associated with the
decreased phosphorylated nodes pvalues, of which: -fifth column refers
to the pvalues when decreased phosphorilated tyrosine are used as seed
nodes -sixt column refers to the pvalues when all the other decreased
phosphorilated kinases are used as seed nodes, -seventh column refers to
the pvalues when the decreased phosphorilated substrates are used as
seed nodes.

A value greater than 950 indicates a pvalues<0.05 as well as a values
greater than 990 indicates a pvalues<0.01.

The rwr_scores.txt file has the same format of pvalues.txt with the
difference that values indicates rwr scores.

The start_seeds.txt is basically the same as the user input.



Module networks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~